# Part 8. Wrapping up

## 61.
Once the jobs are completed, remember to first use pcluster to delete the `MyCluster01` cluster. You can then create a new cluster (named `MyCluster02` so you do not have to wait for `MyCluster01` to be deleted) from your EC2 instance to mount the snapshot and check the files.

Remember to copy your AWS credentials, initialize conda, and activate your `env1` environment.

## 62.
Check that all the expected files have been generated (use the instructions in Step 70 of Lab 3 to calculate the expected number of files for 110 channels), and compute the time taken to complete the jobs.  

> <p class="task"> Task
>
> Include in your lab report:
> 
> a. screenshot of the output of your `checkfiles2.sh` script showing the number of files created,
>
> b. the time taken (remember to take the difference between the earliest start time and the latest end time) for the jobs to complete.

## 63.
Once you are done, you can exit your cluster, and then delete the cluster from your EC2 instance.

You do not need to save another snapshot since presumably you did not modify anything from the last snapshot.

## 64.
You should leave your EC2 instance running since your basic free-tier account allows a small EC2 instance to run 24 hours a day for 31 days. This way, you will not have to go through the setup process again. 

## 65.
Whenever you want to create a cluster in the future, you should just do so from your EC2 instance since the snapshot ID in the cluster config file will be the one that is the most updated.

## 66.
In the next lab, we will look at more ways to optimize the parallelization of the data processing.

