# Part 1. Update files from GitHub 

## 1.
We will first push to GitHub the pipeline-slurm.sh script you created in Lab 3. You will need to:
- first create a cluster
- ssh to the cluster
- initialize conda
- activate the env1 environment

After that you can do:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 ~] $ cd /data/src/PyHipp
```

Create a personal access token (Classic) to use with GitHub [here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token) (scroll down to find the section titled "Creating a personal access token (classic)"). 

You can push the pipeline-slurm.sh file to GitHub by doing:
```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git config --global core.editor "nano"

(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git add pipeline-slurm.sh

(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git commit
```

At this point, a nano editor window will open up for you to add a commit message. It is good practice to add a concise description of what changes were made in the nano window so in the future, you can look back and understand what was done. Once you are done, you can exit nano the usual way, making sure to save the file with the suggested filename. After that, you can push the scripts to your GitHub repository by doing:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git push
```

You will then be prompted to enter your GitHub username and token. 

Check that the upstream repository is configured correctly:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git remote -v
```

which should return:

```shell
origin		https://github.com/yourusername/PyHipp.git (fetch)
origin		https://github.com/yourusername/PyHipp.git (push)
upstream	https://github.com/shihchengyen/PyHipp.git (fetch)
upstream	https://github.com/shihchengyen/PyHipp.git (push)
```

If the upstream repository is not set, you can add it by doing:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git remote add upstream https://github.com/shihchengyen/PyHipp.git
```

Repeat the command above to check that the upstream repository is now set properly. 

If you accidentally cloned the wrong repository in Lab 3 (i.e. shihchengyen/PyHipp instead of your_username/PyHipp), you can reset it by doing:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git remote set-url origin https://github.com/yourusername/PyHipp.git
```
You can then follow the instructions above to check that your upstream repository is set properly.

## 2.
Now you are ready to merge with the upstream changes:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git fetch upstream

(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git checkout main

(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git merge upstream/main
```

This should add two files named "consol_jobs.sh" and “ec2snapshot.sh”. You can push the merged changes to your forked repository by doing:

```shell
(env1) [ec2-user@ip-10-0-5-43 PyHipp] $ git push
```

You will then be prompted to enter your GitHub username and token again. 

## 3.
Update your snapshot using another Terminal window so the changes are saved for use later in this lab.
